SOURCE: connected Gmail export
STATUS: official auto-acknowledgement of receipt — not an investigation decision
EXPORTED: 20 September 2026

From: IBAC Enquiry Email <info@ibac.vic.gov.au>
To: Rich McLean <richarddrawsstuff@gmail.com>
Date: Thu, 17 Sep 2026 05:49:02 +0000
Subject: FINAL EVIDENTIARY NOTICE, OBJECTION AND REQUEST FOR FORMAL INVESTIGATION
Message-ID: 1a0ade9fc679d4aa
Thread: 1a0ad5f8cde5c814

Thank you for your email. This is an automated response to confirm its receipt.
Please be advised that this inbox is only monitored during business hours (Monday to Friday, 8am – 4pm AEST).

In case of emergency
If you have an emergency, please contact local emergency services directly by dialling 000.

Accessing support
Sometimes making a complaint can be stressful or difficult. If you need support, please contact your healthcare provider. Alternatively, you may wish to access one of the support services listed on IBAC's website:
https://www.ibac.vic.gov.au/mental-health-support

Making a new complaint
For information about what you can complain about and what IBAC can deal with:
https://www.ibac.vic.gov.au/reporting-corruption/what-can-you-complain-about

Once you have made a complaint we will start assessing it as soon as possible and will contact you if we require further information or when a decision is made.

In most cases we aim to assess a complaint within 45 days, however there may be delays if it is a complex matter or we require further information.

What can happen to your complaint:
https://www.ibac.vic.gov.au/reporting-corruption/what-happens-to-your-complaint

If you have an existing complaint
Please include the case number in the subject line of any emails.

Copying IBAC in on an email
Unless your email is directed to IBAC and relevant to IBAC's role, emails cc'ing IBAC will not receive a response. If you would like us to respond, you will need to make a complaint or advise IBAC as to how we may be of assistance.

Independent Broad-based Anti-corruption Commission
www.ibac.vic.gov.au
E: info@ibac.vic.gov.au

Archive note: automated receipt of multi-addressee correspondence. No IBAC case number is stated in this reply. Face-of-document only.
