SOURCE: Gmail attachment from noreply@ncat.nsw.gov.au
DATE: 18 March 2026
SUBJECT: NCAT 2024/00324093-003, 004 - DODGER (ALSO KNOWN AS RICHARD MCLEAN), Barran - Written Reasons Attached - Cover Letter for Parties
ATTACHMENT: Written Reasons Attached - Cover Letter for Parties.pdf (209,387 bytes)
CASE: NCAT Guardianship Division 2024/00324093
HEARING: 9 October 2025 · Principal Member S L Handebo
ORDERS DATE: 9 October 2025
COVER LETTER DATE: 18 March 2026

FACE-OF-DOCUMENT EXTRACT (not a republication of an official report; NCAT s 65 Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 restriction is quoted below). Personal mobiles redacted. This is a party's copy of reasons the Tribunal sent to the person concerned.

--- page 1 ---
Guardianship Division
John Maddison Tower Level 6 86 - 90 Goulburn Street SYDNEY NSW 2000
Post Office Box K1026 HAYMARKET NSW 1240
| 1300 006 228 | gd@ncat.nsw.gov.au | www.ncat.nsw.gov.au
Quote the number below for all enquiries
Case number 2024/00324093
Barran Dodger (also known as Richard McLean)
barrandodger@gmail.com
18 March 2026
Application concerning: Barran Dodger (also known as Richard McLean)
Please find enclosed a copy of the written statement of reasons for the decision of the Tribunal made
on 9 October 2025.
Registrar
msavag0
--- page 2 ---
[attach.]
--- page 3 ---
1 
 
 
Civil and Administrative Tribunal 
New South Wales 
 
 
Case Name: Barran Dodger (also known as Richard McLean) 
Medium Neutral Citation:  
 
Hearing Date(s): 9 October 2025 
 
Date of Orders: 9 October 2025 
 
Date of Decision: 9 October 2025 
 
Jurisdiction: Guardianship Division 
 
Before: S L Handebo, Principal Member 
 
Decision: REVIEW OF GUARDIANSHIP ORDER 
 
The guardianship order for Barran Dodger (also 
known as Richard McLean) made on 16 October 
2024 has been reviewed. The order now is as 
follows: 
 
1. The Public Guardian is appointed as the guardian. 
 
2. This is a continuing guardianship order for a 
period of 3 years from 09 October 2025. 
 
3. This is a limited guardianship order giving the 
guardian(s) custody of Barran Dodger (also known 
as Richard McLean) to the extent necessary to carry 
out the functions below. 
 
FUNCTIONS: 
 
4. The guardian has the following functions: 
 
a) Accommodation 
 
To decide where Barran Dodger (also known as 
Richard McLean) may reside. 
 
b) Health care 
 
To decide what health care Barran Dodger (also 
known as Richard McLean) may receive. 
Filed: 18/03/2026 16:09 PM
--- page 4 ---
2 
 
c) Medical/Dental consent 
 
To make substitute decisions about proposed minor 
or major medical or dental treatment, where Barran 
Dodger (also known as Richard McLean) is not 
capable of giving a valid consent. 
 
d) Services 
 
To make decisions about services to be provided to 
Barran Dodger (also known as Richard McLean). 
 
e) Legal services 
 
To make decisions for Barran Dodger (also known as 
Richard McLean) in relation to access to legal 
services, including authority to instruct legal 
representatives on Barran Dodger’s behalf. 
 
CONDITIONS: 
 
5. The condition of this order is: 
 
a) Standard Condition 
 
In exercising this role the guardian shall take all 
reasonable steps to bring Barran Dodger (also 
known as Richard McLean) to an understanding of 
the issues and to obtain and consider his views 
before making significant decisions. 
 
REVIEW OF FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT ORDER 
 
The Financial Management order for Barran Dodger 
(also known as Richard McLean) made on 16 
October 2024 has been reviewed. The order now is 
as follows: 
 
1. The estate of Barran Dodger (also known as 
Richard McLean) is subject to management under 
the NSW Trustee and Guardian Act 2009. 
 
2. The management of the estate of Barran Dodger 
(also known as Richard McLean) is committed to the 
NSW Trustee and Guardian. 
 
Parties: 003: Review of Guardianship Order 
 
Barran Dodger (also known as Richard McLean) (the 
person) 
--- page 5 ---
3 
 
Public Guardian (appointed guardian) 
 
004: Review of Reviewable Financial Management 
Order 
 
Barran Dodger (also known as Richard McLean) (the 
person) 
NSW Trustee and Guardian (appointed financial 
manager) 
 
File Number(s): NCAT 2024/00324093 
 
Publication Restriction: Pursuant to section 65 of the Civil and Administrative 
Tribunal Act 2013, a person must not without the 
consent of the Tribunal, publish or broadcast the 
name of any person who appears as a witness in 
these proceedings, to whom these proceedings 
relate, or is mentioned or otherwise involved in the 
proceedings. The name of a person includes a 
reference to any information, picture or other material 
that identifies the person or is likely to lead to the 
identification of the person. The provision of these 
reasons (with persons identified) is not intended to 
be a publication or broadcasting of an official report 
of the proceedings. 
 
 
  
--- page 6 ---
4 
 
REASONS FOR DECISION 
1 Barran Dodger, also known as Richard McLean (“Barran”), is a 52 year old man 
who, at the time of the Hearing, had no fixed place of abode. 
2 Barran has been known to the Tribunal since 2024, at which time he applied to 
the Tribunal himself for a guardian and a financial manager to be appointed for 
him. 
3 On 16 October 2024 the Tribunal made a guardianship order for Barran  for an 
initial period of twelve months appointing the Public Guardian with the functions 
of accommodation, services, health care and legal services.  The Tribunal also 
made a financial management order, appointing the NSW Trustee and 
Guardian as Barran’s financial manager, with the order to be reviewed by the 
Tribunal within twelve months. 
4 These Reasons for Decision relate to the end of term review of the guardianship 
order and financial management order made on 16 October 2024. 
5 Since the making of the order Barran has been in consistent communicat ion 
with the Tribunal , having sent thousands of pages of emails to the Tribunal, 
totalling approximately eighteen volumes .  As a consequence of this, on 4 
August 2025 the Tribunal made directions to the effect that such material would 
not be considered by the Tribunal unless resubmitted to the Tribunal in 
accordance with the Tribunal’s directions , to ensure that only current and 
relevant material is before the Tribunal on review. 
6 On 12 September 2025 the Tribunal considered an application for a 
confidentiality order from the Public Guardian.  As a consequence of orders 
made on this date, the Tribunal will n ot refer to the name, position location or 
identifying information of any employee of the Public Guardian in these 
Reasons for Decision.   Although not captured by the orders dated 12 
September 2025, the Tribunal has elected to refer to other professionals  
involved in the Hearing in a similar way in these Reasons for Decision. 
--- page 7 ---
5 
 
7 The Hearing was listed on 9 October 2025 and was conducted remotely from 
the Tribunal’s Sydney Registry.   The Hearing was attended by the following 
people: 
(1) The representative from the Public Guardian; 
(2) The representative from the NSW Trustee and Guardian; 
(3) The Separate Representative (being a solicitor employed by Legal Aid); 
(4) The professionals from the same organisation providing Support 
Coordination to Barran; and, 
(5) Barran’s friend, Paul. 
8 Barran did not participate in the Hearing.  The Tribunal was informed by Paul 
that Barran had left his home earlier in the day with the apparent intention of 
travelling to another State.  Paul indicated that Barran was aware of the 
scheduled Hearing and was clear in his views against participating in the 
Hearing.  In these circumstances the Tribunal was satisfied that Barran had 
been afforded the opportunity to participate in the Hearing and had declined to 
do so.  In circumstances where it appeared to the Tribunal that Barran would 
be driving at the time of the Hearing, and did not wish to engage with the 
Tribunal, for his own safety the Tribunal decided not to place a call to Barran .  
Ultimately, the Tribunal decided to proceed with the Hearing in Barran’s 
absence. 
9 At the conclusion of the Hearing the Tribunal decided: 
(1) To reappoint the Public Guardian as Barran’s guardian for a period of 
three years with the functions of accommodation, services, health care, 
medical/dental consent and legal services; and, 
--- page 8 ---
6 
 
(2) To confirm the appointment of the NSW Trustee and Guardian as 
Barran’s financial manager, removing the requirement for the order to 
again be reviewed by the Tribunal. 
REVIEW OF GUARDIANSHIP ORDER 
10 On reviewing the current guardianship order the Tribunal may renew, renew 
and vary the order or determine that the order is to lapse. 
11 The Tribunal may only make a guardianship order for a person if it is satisfied 
that the person is “a person in need of a guardian”. 1  In deciding this, the 
Tribunal must be satisfied that the person lives with a disability that results in 
them being “totally or partially incapable of managing their person” 2 and that 
the disability restricts the person in one or more major life activities to the extent 
that they require “supervision or social habilitation”3. 
12 If a person is “a person in need of a guardian” the Tribunal has a discretion as 
to whether or not to make a guardianship order, and the terms of such an order.  
This discretion is guided by the principles of the Act and a number of equally 
important mandatory considerations.4 
13 When considering the suitability of a proposed private guardian the Tribunal 
must be positively satisfied that they have a personality genuinely compatible 
with the person under guardianship, that there is no undue conflict of interest in 
their appointment, and that they are able and willing to exercise the functions 
of guardianship in a manner consistent with the principles of the Act and with 
insight and objectivity. 5  The Tribunal must not appoint the Public Guardian if 
there is a suitable private person who may be appointed.6 
 
1 Section 14 Guardianship Act 1987 (“the Act”). 
2 Section 3(1) the Act. 
3 Section 3(2) the Act. 
4 Section 14(2) the Act; s4 the Act; IF v IG [2004] NSWADTAP 3. 
5 Section 17(1) of the Act; Re B [2011] NSWSC 1075; P v D1 & Ors [2011] NSWSC 257. 
6 Section 15(3) of the Act. 
--- page 9 ---
7 
 
14 On review, a guardianship order can be made for a period of up to three years 
from the date on which it was made.  However, an order of up to five years can 
be made, if the person under guardianship  has permanent disabilities, is 
unlikely to become capable of managing his or her person and there is the need 
for an order longer than three years.7 
15 The Tribunal has previously determined that Barran is a person in need of a 
guardian based on the medical and allied health evidence presented to it, as 
summarised at paragraphs [21] – [28] of the Tribunal’s Reasons for Decision 
dated 16 October 2024.  In summary, the Tribunal was satisfied that Barran 
lives with schizophrenia, with prominent entrenched chronic persecutory 
delusions, against a background of other concerns, including 
methamphetamine dependence, ADHD, and a possible brain injury.  The 
evidence was such that Barran’s disabilities result in compromised cognitive 
functioning and extremely poor insight and judgment. 
16 There was no medical or allied health evidence before the Tribunal on review 
that was inconsistent with the Tribunal’s previous findings.  Those participating 
in the Hearing were in agreement that Barran continues to be a person in need 
of a guardian.  Absent evidence to disturb the Tribunal’s previous findings, the 
Tribunal is satisfied that Barran continues to be a person in need of a guardian.  
He is, accordingly, a person for whom the Tribunal could make a further 
guardianship order. 
17 The Public Guardian provided a report in support of the continuation of a 
guardianship order, with the following recommendations: 
(1) The accommodation and authorise others functions could be permitted 
to lapse.  The Public Guardian have no made decisions under these 
functions during the course of the order , and Barran’s insistence on 
making his own accommodation decisions has made the function 
unworkable. 
 
7 Section 18 the Act. 
--- page 10 ---
8 
 
(2) Barran is a participant under the NDIS.  The NDIA have appointed a 
support coordinator for Barr an in Western Australia  due to safety 
concerns arising from previous aggressive behaviour and threats made 
against NDIS supports.  Barran regularly approaches other services, and 
the continued appointment of a guardian with a services function is 
necessary for continuity of services. 
(3) Barran has complex health concerns .  He is meant to be subject to an 
involuntary treatment order in South Australia but was lost to follow up.  
Similarly, Barran was subject to a Community Treatment Order in NSW, 
but that order was discharged  due to practical difficulties with 
implementation arising from Barran’s transience.  The continuation of 
this function, and the inclusion of a medical and dental consent function, 
may allow Barran to be supported  with respect to his health care and 
medical treatment. 
(4) There are ongoing proceedings being conducted on Barran’s behalf in 
the Administrative Review Tribunal regarding his access to support 
under the NDIS.  The Public Guardian have engaged Legal Aid to act on 
Barran’s behalf and  are instructing Legal Aid in those proceedings.   
There is an ongoing need for the inclusion of this function. 
18 The Public Guardian’s recommendations were largely supported at Hearing, 
save for the proposal that the accommodation function be lapsed.  Concerns 
were identified that Barran continues to believe that he is eligible for Supported 
Independent Living, and approaches providers misrepresenting that he is so 
funded.  It was proposed that the accommodation function continue under a 
further order to enable a guardian to veto any decisions made by Barr an that 
may have subsequent financial implications for him.  Up on hearing these 
concerns, the representative from the Public Guardian supported the inclusion 
of an accommodation function in a further order. 
19 Barran did not participate directly in the Hearing.  The Separate Representative 
indicated that he had spoken to Barran for approximately two minutes, however 
--- page 11 ---
9 
 
Barran felt that the separate representative was working against him and 
declined to engage further.  During that brief conversation Barran made clear 
that he opposed the making of further orders, though this was largely in the 
context of the financial management order. 
20 Whil

--- extract truncated; full 13-page PDF remains in Gmail as the attached binary. GitHub text push cannot host the PDF bytes. ---
