SOURCE: connected Gmail export
STATUS: official auto-acknowledgement of receipt — not a merits determination
EXPORTED: 20 September 2026

From: NSW Ombudsman's Office <info@ombo.nsw.gov.au>
To: Rich McLean <richarddrawsstuff@gmail.com>
Date: Sat, 19 Sep 2026 03:22:31 +0000
Subject: Message Received By NSW Ombudsman
Message-ID: 1a0b7affdbe4e388

DO NOT REPLY TO THIS EMAIL.

Thank you for your email. It has been forwarded to an appropriate person for action.

Emails directed to multiple parties

If your email was also directed to other people or organisations, it will be reviewed but not responded to, unless we assess that a response is warranted. We generally consider emails addressed to other parties to be for our information only. If you intended to lodge a complaint, you can do this via our online complaint form:
https://portal.ombo.nsw.gov.au/make-a-complaint-online/

If your email was a complaint

If your email was directed to us as a standalone recipient, and is a complaint, we will now assess it.
We are currently working through a high volume of matters and appreciate your patience as we endeavour to respond to you as soon as we can.

If you have other information and documentation, or if your situation changes

We can only assess what you have given us. If you have other relevant information and supporting documents, such as letters or emails you have received from the agency, it is important that you send this to us. Please send as soon as possible to: info@ombo.nsw.gov.au

If your situation changes, and you wish to withdraw your complaint, please let us know.
You can call us on 1800 451 524 between 9am & 4pm weekdays.

WHAT THE NSW OMBUDSMAN DOES
- Handles complaints about the administration of NSW government departments, agencies and local councils and non-government child and family services.
- We aim to be fair. When we make inquiries, we aim to find out what went wrong and work out reasonable solutions that are in the public interest.
- The Ombudsman is accountable to the NSW Parliament and acts independently of any government department or agency.

WHAT THE NSW OMBUDSMAN DOES NOT DO
- We do not have to make inquiries or investigate every complaint we receive.
- Our Complaint Assessment Criteria sets out how we prioritise complaints.
- We cannot force an agency to take action in the way a court can.
- We are independent; we do not act for people who complain to us or the agency the complaint is about.
- We do not give legal advice.

Archive note: receipt of multi-addressee correspondence. Not a complaint outcome.
