SOURCE: Gmail from local-court-wyong@justice.nsw.gov.au
DATE: 15 June 2026
SUBJECT: RE: Urgent! - Further information required - Cases 2026.00154746 & 2026.00154595
FROM: Steve Mannall, Registrar & Snr Manager – Wyong Court, Department of Communities and Justice
TO: Barran Dodger
CC: cassie@ablepointaustralia.com.au

FACE-OF-EMAIL (personal mobiles redacted):

Dear Barran Dodger,

As the accused, Tory John William KILBORN, has maintained plea of not guilty to the charge of using a telecommunications service to menace, harass or offend, his matter has been listed for a defended hearing on 12 February 2027.

The February 2027 listing date for the hearing is consistent with the future hearing dates being allocated for all matters at this Court as our delays are approximately 9 months, i.e. the next available hearing dates are approximately 9 months hence.

I note Mr Kilborn is subject to bail conditions for your protection as follows:

1. You must not do any of the following to Barran DODGER, or anyone he has a domestic relationship with: A) assault or threaten him, B) stalk, harass or intimidate him, and C) intentionally or recklessly destroy or damage any property or harm an animal that belongs to or is in the possession of Barran DODGER
2. You must not approach Barran DODGER or contact him in any way unless the contact is through a lawyer.
9. You must not go within 100 metres of: A) any place where Barran DODGER lives, or B) any place where he works, or C) any place listed here 2/55 Archbold Road, Long Jetty.

There is also an interim apprehended violence order made for your protection in similar terms.

An Interim Apprehended Domestic Violence Order was made for the protection of Barran DODGER prohibiting or restricting the behaviour of the defendant Tory KILBORN.

Orders about behaviour
1. The defendant must not do any of the following to Barran DODGER, or anyone he has a domestic relationship with:
A. assault or threaten him,
B. stalk, harass or intimidate him,
C. intentionally or recklessly destroy or damage any property or harm an animal that belongs to or is in the possession of Barran DODGER.

Orders about contact
2. The defendant must not approach Barran DODGER or contact him in any way unless the contact is through a lawyer.

Orders about where the defendant cannot go
9. The defendant must not go within 100 Metres of:
A. any place where Barran DODGER lives,
B. any place where he works, or
C. any other place listed here
Unit 2 of 55 Archbold Road, Long Jetty

If you believe at any stage the accused/defendant has breached the terms of his bail and apprehended violence order, then you should report this to the Police immediately.

I would envisage the Police Officer in charge of these matters will be in contact with you in the lead up to the hearing next February.

Kind regards
Steve Mannall
Registrar & Snr Manager – Wyong Court
Gosford Hub
Court Services
Courts, Tribunals and Service Delivery Division
Department of Communities and Justice
P: 02 4350 3074
M: [REDACTED MOBILE]
steve.mannall@justice.nsw.gov.au

FOLLOW-UP (same day, 15 June 2026 23:45 UTC):
The Police Officer in charge of these cases is a Constable Harry Smith of Tuggerah Lakes Police District. If you want that constable to contact you then you need to call the Wyong Police.

This is documented court correspondence, not a conviction. The accused has entered a not-guilty plea; hearing listed 12 February 2027.
